---
title: Growing Years
permalink: /our-learning/character-development/growing-years/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Character Development
variant: tiptap
---
<h4><strong>Overview of SJI Junior Sexuality Education Programme for 2024</strong></h4><p>Sexuality Education is delivered in a holistic manner through the school curriculum.&nbsp;The content for Sexuality Education is grouped into five main themes: Human Development, Interpersonal Relationships, Sexual Health, Sexual Behaviour, and, Culture, Society and Law. You may click&nbsp;<a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/education-in-sg/our-programmes/sexuality-education/overview" rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>:</p><p>For&nbsp;more information on the scope of Sexuality Education in the school curriculum.</p><p><strong><u>Growing Years (GY) Programme</u>:<br>At St Joseph’s Institution Junior, the following lessons from the Growing Years Programme will be taught in <u>2024</u>:</strong></p><p><strong><em>Primary 5</em></strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>LESSONS</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>LESSON OBJECTIVES<br>At the end of the lesson, pupils will be able to:</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>TIME PERIOD</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Did you know?</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>know what pornography is and how it can affect themselves and others others.</p></li><li><p>understand the dangers of pornography and reject the viewing and/or reading of pornographic materials.</p></li><li><p>recognise possible situations where they may encounter pornography.</p></li><li><p>evaluate their own responses when they encounter pornography by using ‘Stop-Think-Do’.</p></li></ul></td><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>8/7, 29/7 and 26/8</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Keeping Myself Safe</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>explaining to students their right to keep themselves safe from sexual abuse.</p></li><li><p>elaborating on the precautionary measures students should take when they communicate with people online.</p></li><li><p>explaining how students can protect themselves online and offline and how to avoid dangers by weighing the consequences, on themselves and others, arising from any decisions they might make.</p></li><li><p>explaining the importance of seeking help and how to identify ways to seek help.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>The Changes in me</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>identify the emotions and stresses caused by physical changes during puberty.</p></li><li><p>describe healthy ways to manage the stresses caused by physical and emotional changes during puberty.</p></li><li><p>recognize that one’s identity does not change even when one’s body is experiencing change due to puberty.</p></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table><p><strong><em>Primary 6</em></strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>LESSONS</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>LESSON OBJECTIVES<br>At the end of the lesson, pupils will be able to:</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>TIME PERIOD</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Are we more than friends ?</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>This unit has two lessons and focuses on helping students to build healthy relationships and make responsible decisions.</p></li><li><p>During the lessons, students will be given the opportunity to:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>understand the differences between love and infatuation.</p></li><li><p>identify the strong emotions that may arise from infatuation.</p></li><li><p>learn some healthy ways to manage the strong emotions.</p></li><li><p>recognize the negative impact of teasing their peers who may be experiencing infatuation.</p></li></ul></li></ul></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>25/3 and 1/4</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h4><strong>Information For Parents</strong></h4><p>Parents may opt their children out of the Growing Years programme, and/or supplementary sexuality education programmes by MOE-approved external providers.</p><p>Parents who wish to opt their children out of the&nbsp;<strong>Growing Years (GY) programme</strong>&nbsp;need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be distributed to parents at the start of the year and is also downloadable at the bottom.</p><p>Parents can contact the school at&nbsp;62552700&nbsp;for discussion or to seek clarification about the school’s sexuality education programme.</p><p>Parents, who wish to attend the school sexuality education programmes, should contact the school to make the necessary arrangements.</p><p><a href="/files/Sexuality_Education_letter_to_parents_2024.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Sexuality Education letter to parents 2024</a></p><h4><strong>MOE Sexuality Education in Schools</strong></h4><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Sexuality Education (SEd) in schools is about enabling students to understand the physiological, social and emotional changes they experience as they mature, develop healthy and rewarding relationships including those with members of the opposite sex, and make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters. SEd is premised on the importance of the family as the basic unit of society. This means encouraging healthy, heterosexual marriages and stable nuclear family units with extended family support. The teaching and learning of SEd is based on respect for the values and beliefs of the different ethnic and religious communities in Singapore on sexuality issues.</p></li><li><p>The goals of Sexuality Education are:</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>To help students make wise, responsible and informed decisions through the provision of accurate, current and age-appropriate <u>knowledge</u> on human sexuality and the consequences of sexual activity;</p></li><li><p>To help students know themselves and build healthy and rewarding relationships through the acquisition of <u>social and emotional skills</u> of self-awareness, management of their thoughts, feelings and behaviours, development of empathy for others, possession of effective communication, problem-solving and decision-making skills; and</p></li><li><p>To help students develop a moral compass, respect for themselves and for others as sexual beings, premised on the family as the basic unit of society, through the inculcation of <u>positive mainstream values and attitudes</u>&nbsp;about sexuality.</p></li></ol></li><li><p>The key messages of Sexuality Education for primary schools are:</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Love and respect yourself as you love and respect others;</p></li><li><p>Build positive relationships based on love and respect (which are the foundation for strong families);</p></li><li><p>Make responsible decisions for yourself, your family and society</p></li></ol></li></ol><p></p>