---
title: 60th Anniversary
permalink: /about-sji-junior/our-heritage/our-present/60th-anniversary/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Our Present
---
<iframe allowfullscreen="true" height="569" width="960" frameborder="0" src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vR5Wb1E5OWya4CEdETBmlJuLQH8hKqqaJE-heuecXKY5aVq10c3xmuu3wwH3mop2uDWb_HoZLLmMgkO/embed?start=false&amp;loop=false&amp;delayms=10000"></iframe>
<p>In 2014, SJI Junior celebrated 60 years of its glorious legacy with a gala dinner held on 5 July in its school grounds, the same site which saw its first batch of students reporting to school to be educated in the Lasallian tradition. The dinner, graced by Brother Edmundo Fernandez, Visitor of the Lasallian East Asian District, saw some 700 guests consisting of former Michaelians with illustrious careers which include priests, teachers, ministers and entertainers, as well as current students of SJI Junior and their parents filling the school hall and concourse area. Among them were 10 of the pioneer batch of Michaelians (1954‐1959). Throughout the night, the school was abuzz with conversations among long‐lost classmates, reminiscing about their primary school years. Mobile phones and digital cameras worked overtime as the old boys took photos with their former teachers and classmates to commemorate the evening.</p>
<p>True to the school’s Lasallian core values of Faith, Service and Community, intensive preparatory work saw the St. Michael’s School – SJI Junior Alumni members working tirelessly with staff and teachers of SJI Junior. Brayden Tang, 14, from the Class of 2012 showcased his talent by contributing a painting of the school building which was auctioned off at a sum of $6000. His painting was also made into paper weights which were sold as souvenirs, together with Lego figurines made in the likeness of St Michael’s students. A Lego set of the school building was later auctioned off for $1215. In addition, Augustine Ashley, 27, from the Class of 1999, designed a six‐tier cake with St Michael’s memorabilia, including a figurine of St Michael the Archangel which topped the cake, and which was later auctioned off to the tune of $600.</p>
<p>Earlier in the year, SJI Junior kicked off its 60th anniversary celebrations with a Thanksgiving Mass on 10 January, celebrated by His Grace, Archbishop William Goh, and co‐celebrated by Rev. Fr. Simon Tan, the School Chaplain, Rev. Fr. Edward Seah, a former Lasallian Brother, Rev. Fr. Philip Lai, CSSR, and the following ex‐Michaelian Priests: Rev. Frs. Andrew Wong, Terence Pereira, and Michael D'Cruz.</p>